##################
GOTB
##################

++ INTRO
At the dawn of the Victorian Age, the Eastern Mediterranean is in a state of fragile peace. The Ottoman Empire, centered at Constantinople, has struggled to adapt to the industrial age. In the Balkans, Greek, Serbian, and Romanian nationalists have established varying degrees of independence and autonomy from the Sultan, while the Empire's hold over its African territories grows weaker by the day. Within the imperial court, a battle is being fought over the future of any reforms to the Empire. Gates of the Bosphorus is a historical flavor mod that dives into this "Eastern Question" covering several areas from the nations of the Balkans, to the Ottoman Empire, to the Ottoman subjects in Northern Africa.

++ GREFM
Greece in 1836 is a young nation. Fresh off a civil war, the country is ruled by a Bavarian king and most of its would-be citizens remain under Ottoman rule. Internally, the country suffers from political instability. The young King, Otto von Wittelsbach, seeks to emulate his father in establishing autocratic rule. Opposing him is the majority of the Greece political space, who view this as an affront to the ideals of the revolution. The Bavarocracy journal explores potential outcomes from the historical ejection of Otto, to him potentially holding onto his throne. Caught between autocracy and liberty, the Greek people must find their way.


++ BALKFM
Across the wider Balkans, unrest is brewing as nationalist ideals entrench themselves amongst the various subjects of the Ottomans.

Montenegro stands as a last holdout against Ottoman conquest, maintaining its tenuous independence. The Prince-Bishop, Petar II, is focused on dragging his people kicking and screaming into the modern age. Despite this, the tribes of Montenegro are in many ways stronger than the state, and tribal raids and feuds are commonplace. Complicating this, the Montenegrin state is dependent on raiding to sustain itself which endangers its relationship with its guarantor, Russia.

Serbia, like Greece, is fresh off fighting the Empire for their autonomy. Internally, the country is divided by the dynastic feud between the Austrian-backed Obrenovich dynasty and the Russia-backed Karjorjevich dynasty. The ruler Milosh, is intent on abandoning the throne in protest over the imposition of democratic limits on his authority, despite the illness of his first heir and the youth of his second heir. Meanwhile, Alexander Karjorjevich is wasting no time building up a political base with which to mount a coup.

Beyond these two Slavic nations, the pan-yugoslav movement has begun to take for. With solutions ranging from a federation to loose alliances, the ideal of a Yugoslav state independent of any foreign powers has slowly begun to take center state amongst south slav nationalists.

The Romanian people enter the industrial age divided between the Ottoman, Russian, and Austrian Empires. The Principalities angle for independence from the Turks with Russian support, while Transylvania fights to retain its autonomy in the face of intensifying autocratic efforts from Vienna.

Under the direct control of Constantinople, the Bulgarian and Albanian peoples anxiously await their chance at independence. With support from the Great Powers, they may even be able to acheive their dreams of independence from the Turks.

++ TURKFM / MGRBFM / LEVAFM / HAYKFM
The Ottoman Empire finds itself at a critical juncture. Weakened by a string of military defeats and revolutions, the Empire is seen as doomed to failure. Yet, the Empire is not as weak as it appears. From within the court at Constantinople, the Tanzimat, or reordering, has gained momentum as an effort to modernize and unify the Empire. However, Ottoman leaders are deeply divided on the identity of the Empire and the scale of reforms. Time is limited for the Empire, as is it far too late to contain the spread of Nationalist thought amongst even the Turks themselves.

Closest to Constantinople is the treacharous Bosnian Ali' Pasha Rizvanbegovich. Ambitious to a fault, Ali' Pasha has declared himself the Sultan in Mostar and desires little more than to break free from he Sultan and settle his feud with the Montenegrins.

On the southeastern shores of the Mediterranean lie the Ottoman's African subjects. Chief among these is Egypt ruled by the rebellious Pasha Muhammad Ali'. Muhammad Ali' firmly believes the Ottoman Empire is dying and has set upon a mission to construct a successor Empire fully independent of any power in Constantinople. Despite his rejection of Sultanic authority, Muhammad Ali' has also recognized the need for modernization and has desparately pushed for Egypt to industrialize before the Europeans return to subjugate Egypt.

Across the Mediterraean from Constantinople is the Ottoman's province in Libya. From Tripoli and Bengahzi the Ottomans attempt to project their influence into the Sahara. the Libyan administration has little power outside of its major settlements, and Turkish forces frequently find themselves acosted by the Bedouins of the desert.

Further west, the Beylik of Tunis has remained ever faithful to the Sultan. However, the heir Ahmad Bey has seen the threat of French colonization and seeks to strike a middle ground between loyalty to Constantinople and peace with Europe.

Along the Empire's eastern fringe are the tribes of Kurdistan. Feircely indepdent and far from the court at Constantinople, the Kurds continue to defy direct control by the Sultan. In conjunction with the Tanzimat reforms, the Sultan has also ordered his generals to finally integrate the Kurds into the Empire.


++ EQFM
Several situations also require the attention of countries in the Eastern Mediterranean.

Foremost among these is the worsening situation in the Balkans. Nationalism has taken root in the Balkans and its influence grows with every year. As long as these peoples remain under foreign rule, there is little hope for peace. Between phases of escalation and de-escalation, countries must navigate the complexities of the Balkans.

In the Adraiatic, pirates from Albania have terrorized merchants for generations. Emboldened by the weakening power of Constantinople, these outlaws have become bolder and represent a menace to the entirety of the Adriatic.

Deep in the Sahara, the Bedouin tribes are content to continue their semi-nomadic lifestyle. However, it has become increasingly difficult to ignore the presence of European and Turkish envoys. Among the tribes, Sufist Senusiyya movement has begun gaining traction amongst the Bedouin with its message of restraint and austerity. While the movement is disorganized, it is difficult to ignore its anti-imperialist undertones.


++ OUTRO
Overall, Gates of the Bosphorus aims to bring context to the Eastern Mediterranean within Victoria 3. From the smallest nation in the Balkans to the Ottoman Empire itself, take charge of a nation and lead them into the industrial era.


##################
CMF
##################
Hey everyone, and welcome to the presentation for the Community Mod Framework. CMF is a community-maintained mod that aids in
- Cross-mod detection
- Deconfliction of changes to law visibility, political movement weights, and political party names
- Provides several UI extensions and new UI features without impacting gameplay
- Adds several custom journal widgets, event windows, and modifier icons for mod content
- Quality of life features for modding such as:
--- Float arrays
--- Dictionaries
--- Variable error suppression
--- on_action effect blockers

I'll be covering several of these elements here, with full documentation available on the GitHub repository.

++ Cross-Mod Detection & Mod Deconfliction
The initial reason for creating CMF was that modders were unable to adequately plan for the presence of other mods in a playset and had limited avenues for avoiding collisions were both have to edit the same file.

The Cross-Mod Detection triggers allow mods to detect each other's presence via a scripted trigger. This works by CMF providing scripted triggers for participatig mods that default to return false. A participating mod can then overwrite their specific trigger to provide an indicator of whether a mod is present or not at runtime.

The Political Movement Weights framework allows for injecting weights for custom ideoloies. This is done by inserting a placeholder script value that can be overridden by a mod downstream.

The Law Visibility Framework provides a system of variable checks that allow modders to hide the base game laws without having to collide when editing the visiblity block of a base game law.


++ UI Extensions & Content Frameworks
Custom event windows
CMF contains several event windows and maintains a framework for deconflicting colliding edits to the event window file. These windows can be called in your events with the `event_window` parameter.

Sidebar Buttons:
To aid with conflicting mods that want to add buttons to the sidebar, CMF provides a custom UI element. By adding a placeholder ideology scope to a global list, you can activate a custom button to trigger effects or show scripted widgets from the sidebar.

Custom Objectives
One of the first UI features in CMF is the addition of a scrollbar for custom obectives. In the base game, custom objectives will overflow from the default container. CMF adds a scrollbar to allow for seamless addition of new objectives.

Custom journal widgets
CMF also contains several custom journal widgets to provide more ways to spice up your journal content. These are injected by being called in your journal entry script and require NO gui modding knowledge.

Situations Framework
The Situations Framework is a series of injectable journal widgets that allow provide an interface inspired by the struggle system from CK3. These entries are all driven by flag variables and give you full control over your situation. A future expansion to include situation factions will be implemented later this year.

Organizations Framework
The International Organizations Framework is a UI extension inspired by the IO mechanics from Europa Univeralis V. This consists of two elements: a sidebar button and custom side panel. This framework provides several contextless journal entries groups that will be shown in the panel once added. Clicking on these will open that specific journal, allowing you to use global journals to function as IOs

Outliner Changes
- Situations
- Organizations
- Objectives

Hiding Journal groups / elements
Along with the widgets, CMF allows you to hide elements from the journal entry UI and hide entire journal groups.

MPM
CMF has also integrated the MPM Framework by 1230James

Particle Effects/Shaders


++ OUTRO